---
title: "Deterministic scale-invariant dynamics in a logistic Game-of-Life model"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2025-06-lgol
excerpt: 
date: 2025-06-07
venue: 'Nature Communications Physics (to appear)'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.07189'
bibtexurl: 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sarinstein-yan/sarinstein-yan.github.io/master/files/2025-06-lgol.bib'
# citation: 'Akgun, Hakan, Xianquan Yan, Tamer Taskiran, Muhamet Ibrahimi, Ching Hua Lee, and Seymur Jahangirov. “Scale-Invariant Dynamics in a Purely Deterministic Game of Life Model.” arXiv, June 7, 2025. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2411.07189.'
---

**Abstract:**
Scale invariance is a key feature characterizing criticality in complex dynamical systems, which often organize in spatial structures with no typical size and/or lifespan. While random external inputs or tunable stochastic interactions are typically required for showcasing such criticality, the question of whether scale-invariant dynamics can emerge from purely deterministic interactions remains unclear. In this work, we uncover critical dynamics of equal-state clusters that emerge in the *logistic* Game of Life (GOL), a simple extension where a deterministic control parameter enlarges the binary state space of Conway’s GOL into a Cantor set. We find at least three types of asymptotic behavior, i.e., phases, that are separated by two fundamentally distinct critical points. The first critical point—associated with a peculiar form of self-organized criticality—defines the boundary between a sparse-static and a sparse-dynamic asymptotic phase. Meanwhile, the second point marks an enigmatic deterministic percolation transition between the sparse-dynamic and a third, dense-dynamic phase. Moreover, we identify distinct power-law distributions of cluster sizes characterized by unconventional critical exponents that are not observed in standard equilibrium systems. Overall, our work paves the way for studying emergent scale invariance in purely deterministic systems.